# Deep-Learning-Models-For-Diagnosing-Pulmonary-Lesions


In recent years, the prevalence of several lung diseases, especially pneumonia, tuberculosis, and the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), has drawn attention globally. These diseases can be effectively diagnosed with the help of lung imaging. With the development of deep learning technology and many publicly available medical datasets, the diagnosis of lung diseases has been further improved. Pneumonia is a form of acute respiratory infection that affects the lungs and is generally caused by viruses, bacteria, and fungi. Pneumonia is also the single largest infectious cause of death in children worldwide, accounting for about 15% of all deaths of children under five years old. Next, Tuberculosis (TB) is an airborne infectious disease and a major health threat that remains deleterious in most parts of the world. Finally, the chest imaging findings of COVID-19 included bilateral lung involvement and ground-glass opacities in the majority of hospitalized patients. Within deep learning, transfer learning is a technique where a neural network model is first trained on a very large dataset and that model is employed in the project. The current line of research aims to develop and compare several deep learning models that will support doctors and radiologists to be self-assured when making any diagnosis decisions from patients' CXRs.  In this work, a recently proposed model is employed for disease classification and is further documented and compared with pre-existing deep learning models, which are also employed for the same classification tasks. 
